The President: Hi, everybody.
Over the next couple weeks,
schools all across the country
will be opening their doors.
Students will suit up for
fall sports, marching band,
and the school play; moms
and dads will snap those
first-day-of-school pictures
-- and that includes
me and Michelle.
And so today, I want to talk
directly with students
and parents about one of the
most important things any
of you can do this year --
and that's to begin preparing
yourself for an education
beyond high school.
We know that in today's economy,
whether you go to a four-year
college, a community college, or
a professional training program,
some higher education
is the surest ticket
to the middle class.
The typical American with a
bachelor's degree or higher
earns over $28,000 more per
year than someone with just
a high school diploma.
And they're also much
more likely to have a job
in the first place -- the
unemployment rate for those
with a bachelor's degree
is less than one-third
of the rate for those without
a high school diploma.
But for too many families
across the country,
paying for higher education
is a constant struggle.
Earlier this year, a young woman
named Elizabeth Cooper wrote
to tell me how hard it is
for middle-class families
like hers to afford college.
As she said, she feels "not
significant enough to be
addressed, not poor enough
for people to worry about,
and not rich enough
to be cared about."
Michelle and I know the feeling
-- we only finished paying off
our student loans ten years ago.
And so as President, I'm working
to make sure young people
like Elizabeth can go to
college without racking
up mountains of debt.
We reformed a student loan
system so that more money
goes to students
instead of big banks.
We expanded grants and
college tax credits
for students and families.
We took action to offer millions
of students a chance to cap
their student loan payments
at 10 percent of their income.
And Congress should pass a bill
to let students refinance
their loans at today's
lower interest rates,
just like their parents can
refinance their mortgage.
But as long as college
costs keep rising,
we can't just keep throwing
money at the problem --
colleges have to do their part
to bring down costs as well.
That's why we proposed a plan
to tie federal financial aid
to a college's performance, and
create a new college scorecard
so that students and parents
can see which schools provide
the biggest bang for your buck.
We launched a new $75 million
challenge to inspire colleges
to reduce costs and raise
graduation rates.
And in January, more than 100
college presidents and nonprofit
leaders came to the White
House and made commitments
to increase opportunities
for underserved students.
Since then, we've met with even
more leaders who want to create
new community-based partnerships
and support school counselors.
And this week, my Secretary
of Education, Arne Duncan,
announced a series of
commitments to support students
who need a little extra academic
help getting through college.
This is a challenge
I take personally.
And to all you young people,
now that you're heading
back to school, your education
is something you have
to take personally, also.
It's up to you to push
yourself; to take hard classes
and read challenging books.
Science shows that when you
struggle to solve a problem
or make a new argument,
you're actually forming
new connections in your brain.
So when you're thinking hard,
you're getting smarter.
Which means this year, challenge
yourself to reach higher.
And set your sights on
college in the years ahead.
Your country is counting on you.
And don't forget to have
some fun along the way, too.
Thanks everybody.
Good luck on the year ahead.